welcome to the man of recaps this is the
flash season two at the end of season
one the flash was trying to close a
black hole by
running real fast but to fully close it
he needs help from firestorm flies up
there and defuses in the middle of it
boom yeah that worked dr stein survives
but unfortunately ronnie did not
so sad for poor caitlyn he just got
married at the end of last season so
last season they defeated the reverse
flash eobard thon posing as dr harrison
wells the flash was his mortal enemy but
in the time he spent mentoring barry he
came to like him a little bit he
especially felt bad about his father in
prison so he left a will as harrison
wells confessing to the murder of
barry's mom
so yes it happens barry's dad is out of
jail so life goes on in central city
with the new one-off meta-human
attacking every week but why have they
never seen these metahumans before well
turns out they are from
a parallel earth they call it earth 2
one of a series of infinite earths and
strap yourself in cause it's multiverse
time this handsome man who tells them
about it is jay garrick he
is the flash over on earth 2 and his
arch nemesis there is a speedster with
blue lightning called zoom the black
hole they cost at the end of season one
opened a portal between the worlds and
jay garrick got sucked in through it and
now zoom is using smaller portals all
over the city to bring through earth to
meta-humans and have them attack the
flash
when jay was sucked through the breach
he lost his speedster powers but he
still joins team flash as a coach he
teaches flash a really neat speedster
trick if you run fast enough you can
throw lightning baby pew
dr caitlin snow comes up with the drug
velocity 9 that does give him his speed
back but only temporarily and if you use
it too much it'll kill you it's only
been a few months since her husband
ronnie died but jay's real handsome and
a nice guy they've got a cute romance
speaking of romance there's a new hot
girl cop on the force and she's super
into nerdy csi stuff long story short
she and barry date for the whole first
half of the season but then she goes
back off to csi college goodbye
one of the earth to metahumans is a
giant shark man what
yes he's called king shark and much like
gorilla grodd he shows up about once a
season speaking of grodd this season he
kidnaps caitlyn king kong style but they
managed to throw him through a breach to
the jungles of earth too where there's a
whole city of intelligent gorillas earth
2's crazy
anyway the guy who took down king shark
is the earth 2 dr harrison wells much
like his real earth one counterpart he's
the genius behind star labs but this one
carries a laser gun and he's real grumpy
it's weird having dr wells back on the
team so they call this guy harry
eventually the flash comes face to face
with zoom but even with his new
lightning powers
zoom is way faster than barry this can
be a problem in the meantime cisco
starts having trippy clairvoyant visions
of what's going on elsewhere or in the
future turns out cisco is a metahuman
yeah he was hit by the dark matter from
the particle reactor explosion
it just didn't manifest until now he
built some sweet shades to help him
focus his power and he goes by the name
vibe he starts dating a cute barista but
when they touch hands oh he vibes her
with crazy hawk girl powers
turns out she does have hawkgirl powers
it's part of the big crossover event
this season which leads into the start
of legends of tomorrow now back to zoom
turns out this harrison wells is working
for him because he has his daughter
jesse hostage he wants to steal the
flash's speed so he has dr wells put a
thing in his suit that saps his energy
and he's shooting it up all right now at
first harry didn't care about team flash
he had an antagonistic relationship with
this crew but after working together to
stop various threats of the week he
starts to like him so he feels bad and
confesses
they forgive him though you were just
doing what you had to do to save your
daughter and now we're gonna help you
using fake science they close down most
of the breaches and this is a good time
to make fun of the constant stream of
science gibberish on this show
how did you stabilize it cfl quark
matter negative energy density with
positive surface pressure that's genius
but they leave the one breach open on
just our labs and it's time for a bro
road trip over to earth 2.
they knock out barry's nerdy
doppelganger so barry can impersonate
him for a day earth 2 joe west is a jazz
lounge
singer it's his daughter iris who's
chief of police here and more than that
he's married to this berry but earth 2
firestorm is a villain
along with his girlfriend caitlyn snow
who on this earth has crazy ice powers
she's killer frost cisco's doppelganger
is also a villain named reverb and
together they're taking down the flash
just then though zoom comes up and
insta kills ronnie and evil cisco i told
you guys i wanted the flash alive
zoom brings the flash to his personal
dungeon where he has jesse wells as well
as a mysterious man in the iron mask the
rest of the crew convinces killer frost
to help him she wants revenge for ronnie
she leads them to zoom's dungeon where
they rescue jessie and when zoom shows
up she oh ice powers holds him off they
make it back to earth one gonna close
the breach behind him but not before
zoom
oh stabs jay garrick through the heart
no
and there's no way to reopen the breach
they're safe on earth one but earth 2 is
doomed to be ruled by
zoom but life goes on for now turns out
joe west has a surprise son
named wally he's a delinquent street
racer but soon becomes part of the
family
in fact he and jesse wells start
flirting so watch out for that then one
day eobard thon shows up yes the reverse
flash but he doesn't remember season one
this is his past but wait wasn't he
erased from the timeline well not yet
because this is his past he's a time
remnant anyway season two barry handily
beats this guy and imprisons him but
that causes a time paradox where cisco's
gonna be erased so they have no choice
but to send him back to eventually live
their season one now one day cisco tries
to vibe jay but turns out
jay is zoom yes two seasons in a row the
villain was one of their friends in
disguise
if barry's ever gonna stop zoom he needs
to get a lot faster and he needs to
learn from another speedster so he
travels through time back to season one
to learn from fake harrison wells this
eobard thon though is an experienced
time traveler and immediately realizes
this is future barry they have a nice
little chat where barry bluffs his butt
off and convinces eobard to give him the
speed formula turns out if you mess with
time travel though the speed force might
send time rates after you
they only managed to defeat this one
because barry's trip accidentally turned
a season one villain into a good guy
anyway they got the speed equation turns
out the key to being faster is juicing
yourself with tachyons
and zoom it works barry's faster than
ever so fast in fact he accidentally
crosses over to earth 38 where he meets
supergirl for the first time so pure
speed can get you between earth but
barry can't control it but maybe cisco
can yes his
powers aren't just for seeing things he
can open breaches to other earths and
immediately zoom hops on through with
barry's new power up he and zoom are
evenly matched but zoom plays dirty and
kidnaps wall-e flash has no choice but
to give up his speed while they're
waiting for the science thing they clear
up some points with jay
turns out his real name is hunter
zolomon he was a serial killer on earth
too that got the flash powers he started
playing both villain and hero
just for fun and to mess with people but
wait a minute who is the jay garrick he
killed well that was a time remnant of
himself he created by going back just a
little bit so he could be on earth two
and one at the same time
anyway with all that cleared up the
flash drains his speed and gives it to
zoom
all unlimited power he kidnaps caitlyn
hoping to beauty in the beaster he does
really have a crush on her in his
dungeon caitlyn meets her doppelganger
killer frost who none of the boys told
her about
working together they managed to escape
but killer frost turns on her luckily
zoom shows back up right then and oh
kills killer frost then zoom comes back
to earth 1 and kills a whole squad of
police officers takes the camera like
i own this world now without a speed
barry can't do anything to stop it but
harrison wills has a crazy idea
to recreate the particle accelerator
explosion
unfortunately it does not go great barry
is disintegrated
and the wave of dark matter hits wally
and jesse but they don't develop any
speed powers
yet as you might imagine barry's not
dead he's just trapped in the speed
force which turns out has a personality
it like talks to him as his various
friends but long story short they're
able to get him out of there and flash
got his powers back their celebration is
short-lived however when zoom crashes
the party grabs barry's dad
no don't do it but zoom does oh kills
barry's father
they have an epic speedster fight
they're closely matched but barry has
trouble killing zoom because he keeps
killing himself yeah he's created like a
bunch of time remnants of himself so for
complicated reasons instead of a fight
it comes down to a race
zoom wants to prove he's the fastest man
in the multiverse and so boom they're
racing around this big science thing
which turns out with two speedsters
powering it up would destroy all the
other earths in the multiverse so to
stop it bear's got to use one of zoom's
tricks and create a time remnant of
himself well one of them fights zoom the
other one runs around the science thing
real fast
sacrificing himself but saving the
multiverse and the surviving barry
defeats zoom gets him pinned down just
then some time rates show up
fed up with zoom shenanigans they carry
him off so the day is saved
so wait a minute barry what's the deal
with your time remnant you're telling me
that the future you came back in time
then sacrificed himself if you're super
confused about how this time remnant
trick even works you're not alone
barry's like hey don't worry about it
hopefully it won't come back to haunt me
later for now though they rescue the
mystery man in the iron mask and turns
out it is a doppelganger of barry's
father
yes this is the real jay garrick who is
the flash on earth 3.
so the day is saved and everyone's going
back to their own earths team flash is
an expert in this multiburst stuff now
barry though is still super sad about
his dad's death and iris who hasn't
really been in the season much is like
hey would make an out make you feel
better so barry and iris have their real
actual first kiss
he's still sad though so he decides to
do some time travel back to the night
his mother was murdered and this time
consequences be damned he busts in there
and
saves her but now his past self who was
watching from the stairwell fades from
existence
what does that mean find out on the
flash season three
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap check out the join button and
support the channel as a member